the sound of vintage single coils the
sound of p90s
[Music]
and finally the sound of humbuckers
mmm-hmm until now if you wanted all of
those tones at the same gig or the same
session you would have to bring three
guitars with you enter the seymour
duncan p rails pickups the seymour
duncan p rails pickups were designed to
give you multiple sounds within the same
pickup at its heart it's a p90 let's
take a look at one of the prototypes
what you can clearly see here is that
this main section of the P rails is
essentially a p90 bobbin that's wound
like of traditional p90 so when this
humbucker splits to a single coil what
you're gonna get is a full a local five
p90 sound at the same time this pickup
contains another coil this other coil is
an Alec empowered rail coil now that's a
sound that people have only been able to
get from our custom shop when the Custom
Shop would put in an ala ko5 magnet into
one of our rails pickups but now it's
available inside of the P rails now what
kind of sound does that give us well
essentially that's going to give a tone
that's usable for single coil tones like
strat type of tones that will be more
authentic than what you've ever heard
from a split humbucker type tone that
will utilize a slug coil or a screw coil
from a normal humbucker and so then the
next question is well what do I get when
I put them together well in the reality
is that there are two sounds basically
that you get when you put them together
the first sound that you're able to get
is when you wire them in series just
like a normal humbucker you get a big
high output tough meaty type of tone
good for you for use in rock heavy blues
any kind of a heavy guitar tone that you
would normally use a rock-and-roll
humbucker for but when you wire them in
parallel with each other the tone it
stays bubbly the two coils sounds so
different from each other that there's
less phase cancellation and
initially if you would want you can get
a more of a vintage PAF type of a tone
from your pickup in this guitar used for
demo purposes we've got three sounds
we've got the rails tone we've got the
p90 tone and then we have the series
humbucker tone and that's what we're
gonna listen to today first let's start
with the rails tone and I'm going to use
both pickups on at the same time so that
you can hear sort of that strata knotch
type of a tone that we get out of this
guitar next we're gonna go to the p90
tone
and finally the series humbucker tone
[Music]
now as you can hear there's a vastly
different tonality between all three of
those sounds but there's also a little
bit of a different in the output level
which causes me to be able to get all
these different tones without making any
changes at the amplifier let's listen to
the pickups by themselves first I'm
gonna go to the neck pickup and I'm
gonna start on the rail tone
[Music]
now we're gonna go to the p90 tone
and finally we're gonna go to the
humbucker toe
[Music]
now we're gonna move to the bridge
pickup and the first thing we're gonna
do is again start with that rail tone so
you're gonna be listening to sort of for
sort of like a Strad bridge pickup kind
of a sound
[Music]
now we're going to kick it into the p90
and finally the humbug atone
you
and all of those tones again are
available without making any changes at
the amplifier this is all coming
straight from the guitar so there you
have it the seymour duncan p rails
pickups a patent applied for design that
is going to enable you to get to three
even four tones from the very same
pickup let's jam it out
[Music]